SMG2 Bingo Rules:

1. While playing, no other mods or codes are allowed other than those included in the Bingo mod.

   1a. To that end, modifying the Bingo mod files without the consent of the other competitors is strictly forbidden.

2. Players must decide beforehand which character to use and whether or not character swapping will be allowed.
      (The provided save contains 2 Mario files and 1 Luigi file, and they all have the character-change room unlocked.)

3. Players must decide beforehand whether or not to allow 2P.
      (Note that the current version of the Bingo Gen is not built with 2P in mind.)

4. It is recommended that you use the provided save files, as they cut down on the relatively monotonous early game.
      (These files have completed Sky Station 1 with the comet medal, have 0 star bits,
       and have watched the cutscene where you step on Starship Mario's panel for the first time.)
   However, if this is not possible, you may start from a fresh file, as long as everyone starts from the same place.

5. Players may replay any star as much as they wish for purposes such as grinding star bits, reclaiming a missed
   comet medal, or spawning a new comet. However, if something in that level has already been used for a goal,
   doing that thing again does not count a second time.
      For example, doing Sky Station 2's teleporter game 5 times would NOT satisfy the goal
      "Complete 5 Teleporter Games, then Get the Star", but it would count for 1 teleporter game.

6. All goals require you to finish the star you complete them in. For example, if you do your third teleporter game
   in Yoshi Star 1, you must wait to claim the "3 Teleporter Games" goal until you complete Yoshi Star 1.

7. Switching save files during a game is banned. If the game crashes or the game must be quit for some other reason,
   you must re-enter on the same file.

8. External sources, such as the Cheat Sheet, the internet, or other people, are allowed.
   Be aware that using these resources will cost you valuable time and may alert others to your targeted goals.

9. There are no additional requirements to finish other than the inherent requirements of the bingo game itself.
   Beating Galaxy Generator is NOT required.
   For example, the only requirement to win a triple bingo is to get 3 bingos.

10.Banktoad is banned. (He doesn't even spawn, anyway.)


---The following rules pertain to specific goals.---


1. For goals that mention "unique bosses", the following special cases apply:

   1a. If using the provided saves, Sky Station 1's Peewee Pirhana fight does NOT count...
          ...UNLESS you choose to replay Sky Station 1.
	  (You can also play Sky Station C if you want to use Peewee for this goal.)
       If starting from a fresh file, Sky Station 1's Peewee Pirhana fight DOES count.

   1b. "Unique bosses" means that fighting the same boss in the comet does NOT count twice.
          For example, the Dig-a-Leg fights in Spin Dig 1 and Spin Dig C do NOT count as distinct boss fights.

   1c. The different Bowser fights DO count as unique bosses.

   1d. Gobblegut and Fiery Gobblegut DO count as unique bosses.

   1e. Puzzle Plank 1's Mandibug Stack DOES count as a boss.

   1f. Silver Chomps do NOT count as bosses.
   
   1g. Each fight in Boss Blitz DOES count as a unique boss (for 5 total).

2. For goals that mention "riding Yoshi", you must be RIDING Yoshi when you collect the Star 
   for it to count towards the goal.

3. For the goal "Get Crushed by Something that isn't an Enemy", Whomps, Thwomps, and Tox Boxes are enemies.

4. For goals that mention "Teleporter Games", teleporter games are the blue and yellow portals that
   take the character to a special zone where they must kill all the enemies in a short time limit
   in order to recieve a prize, usually 3 1UP mushrooms.

5. For the goal "Buy from 2 Luma Shops", Luma shops are the blue lumas that sell you either a
   Life Mushroom or a 1UP Mushroom for 30 Star Bits.

6. For goals that mention powerups, the following items DO count as powerups:
   - Spin Drill
   - Cloud Flower
   - Fire Flower
   - Rock Mushroom
   - Bee Mushroom
   - Spring Mushroom
   - Boo Mushroom
   - Rainbow Star
   - Dash Pepper
   - Blimp Fruit
   - Bulb Berry

   The following items do NOT count as powerups:
      - Yoshi
      - Life Mushroom
      - 1UP Mushroom
      - Anything else not on the first list

7. For the goal "Bring 3 Powerups to the Engine Room", the Engine Room is the room on Starship Mario
   that contains up to 7 of Mario's powerups, which you "bring back" after completing specific missions.

8. For the goal "1 Bronze Star", a Bronze Star is the star you get after allowing the Cosmic Guide to
   take control of Mario. The Cosmic Guide appears in specific missions after dying a set number of times.

9. For goals that start with "Feed X Hungry Lumas", the Lumas that count are the coin Hungry Lumas that unlock
   hidden stars in specific levels, and the starbit Hungry Lumas that unlock new galaxies in each world.

      Luma Shops (see rule 5) do NOT count.

10.For goals that ask the player to accumulate a certain amount of lives, the following lives do not count:

      - Lives obtained from Princess Peach's letter
      - Lives obtained from repeatedly bouncing off of the giant Koopa Troopas in Supermassive Galaxy.

      If lives are obtained this way and you still want to complete the goal, you must obtain a number of lives
      equal to the original number of lives in the goal PLUS all lives obtained from forbidden methods.

      All other methods of obtaining lives are valid for these goals.

11.For goals that mention "X Comet Medals", Sky Station 1's comet medal DOES count.

12.For goals that mention "X Stars" and goals that mention "X Stars in World 1", Sky Station 1 DOES count.

13.For goals that mention "Timed Comets", any comet with a time limit counts.

      This includes all Speed Run comets, all Romp comets, and each Purple Coin comet that has a time limit.

14.For goals that mention "Unique Letters", any letter with distinct text from another letter counts.

      Notably, the letters from Rosalina containing 50 star bits are all unique, as they have different text.

      If the Peach letter is obtained multiple times, the duplicate letters do NOT count, as they have the same text.

      (You can check the different unique letters you have by talking to Mailtoad when he doesn't have a new letter.)

15.For goals that mention "Hungry Luma Galaxies", Hungry Luma Galaxies are galaxies that are unlocked
   by feeding a Hungry Luma on the World Map a certain number of star bits.

16.For goals that mention "Silver Crowns", Silver Crowns appear on a given galaxy when you complete
   all non-green stars in that galaxy.

17.For the goal "Both Box-Breaking Minigames", this refers to the minigames in Rightside Down S and Upside Dizzy S,
   where a Gearmo asks the player to destroy crates with a Fire Flower in 20 seconds.

18.For the goal "Beat Block C Yoshiless", you must complete the level without ever riding Yoshi.
 
      If you accidentally ride Yoshi, you must either die or exit the level if you want to retry the goal.

      If you have collected a checkpoint, you MUST exit level if you want to retry the goal.

19.For goals that mention "X Stars from the Chimp", any star the Chimp gives you counts for this goal.

      This includes Fluffy Bluff 1, even though there is no inherent "game" involved in that star.

20.For the goal "Twisty Trials 1 Cloudless", you must complete the level without ever collecting a Cloud Flower.
 
      If you accidentally collect a Cloud Flower, you must either die or exit the level if you want to retry the goal.

21.For goals that mention "Spawn Cosmic Clones in X missions", you essentially have to complete a star with Cosmic Clones
   in it for it to count. It's worded this way so that the player actually has to make the clones appear; i.e. skipping
   the star chip planet in Fluffy Bluff 1 would make that star not count for this goal, even though that star has 
   Cosmic Clones in it.